---
title: Configuration
---

Flamework allows you to configure both transformer behavior and runtime behavior using configuration files, in `tsconfig.json` and `flamework.json` respectively.

## Runtime Configuration

Flamework allows you to configure runtime behavior through a `flamework.json` file.

### `profiling`
- Defaults to `true` in studio, otherwise `false`

This option enables microprofiler tags and memory categories for Flamework's built in lifecycle events.

### `logLevel`
- Defaults to `none`
- Valid values: `none`, `verbose`

This allows you to configure the logging level for Flamework.

### `disableDependencyWarnings`
- Defaults to `false`

This setting disables warnings emitted by Flamework when you use the `Dependency` macro prior to `Flamework.ignite()`

## Transformer Configuration

These settings control the behavior of Flamework's transformer and are configured under `rbxts-transformer-flamework`'s configuration in `tsconfig.json`

### `noSemanticDiagnostics`
- Defaults to `false`

This setting allows you to disable Flamework's TypeScript type checking which can improve compile times.
This can result in instability as Flamework's behavior is undefined when there are outstanding type errors.

### `obfuscation`
- Defaults to `false`

This setting enables Flamework's obfuscation which will shorten and randomize internal IDs, networking names and similar.

### `idGenerationMode`
- Defaults to `obfuscated` when obfuscation is enabled, otherwise defaults to `full`
- Valid values: `full`, `obfuscated`, `short`, `tiny`

You most likely do not need to change this.

There are 4 options and this will change how Flamework's identifiers are generated.
You should only use `full` in packages (which means you also should not use `obfuscation` in packages.)

#### full
These are mostly unique IDs without any randomization.

- Game projects: `server/services/myService@MyService`
- Packages: `@rbxts/my-package:server/services/myService@MyService`

#### obfuscated
These IDs have no debug information but can include package names.

- Game projects: `aZx`
- Packages: `@rbxts/my-package:aZx`

#### short / tiny
These IDs are similar to `obfuscated`, except they contain some debug information.
The random text is used to guarantee uniqueness.

Short and tiny are similar except `tiny` will not include the file name (the `myService@`)

- Game projects (short): `myService@MyService{aZx}`
- Game projects (tiny): `MyService{aZx}`
- Packages (short): `@rbxts/my-package:myService@MyService{aZx}`
- Packages (tiny): `@rbxts/my-package:MyService{aZx}`


### `hashPrefix`
Defaults to package name

This changes the prefix used for IDs generated by packages.
