---
title: Installation
---

This guide will show you how to get up and running with Flamework!

## Flamework template
If you're starting a new project, the simplest way to setup Flamework is to use our template.

### Create your project folder
You'll want to create the folder where your project will be stored. This can be anywhere on your pc.

### Create the template
After you've made your project folder, run the following commands inside of the directory.

```bash
npx degit rbxts-flamework/template
npm i
```

### Compiling
You should use the build scripts to compile your project, otherwise Flamework may not work properly.
Alternatively, you can use the vscode extension which will start up watch mode for you.

```bash
npm run build # Build your project
npm run watch # Start watch mode
```

## Manual installation
For existing projects.

### Setting up your project
Navigate to the directory that you want to place your project. This can be anywhere on your computer.

After creating your project folder, you'll want to setup a new roblox-ts project. You can do this by opening command prompt, bash or powershell
and running the following command.
```bash
npx roblox-ts init game
```

The command will ask you several questions about what to setup and you can choose whatever you'd like.

### Installing Flamework
Now that you have your project setup, it's time to install Flamework.

#### Packages

First off, you'll want to install the flamework library and transformer.
```bash
npm i -D rbxts-transformer-flamework
npm i @flamework/core
```

You can optionally install the following additional modules. Documentation can be found under the additional modules section.
```bash
npm i @flamework/components # Flamework's component system
npm i @flamework/networking # Flamework's remote networking module
```

#### Configure tsconfig.json

Next, you'll need to configure your tsconfig.json.
You'll want to add the following json under your compilerOptions field.
```json
"experimentalDecorators": true,
"plugins": [
	{ "transform": "rbxts-transformer-flamework" }
]
```

You'll also need to add the @flamework scope to your typeRoots.

```json
typeRoots: ["node_modules/@rbxts", "node_modules/@flamework"]
```

#### Configure default.project.json

Find the following json inside your `default.project.json`
```json
"node_modules": {
	"@rbxts": {
		"$path": "node_modules/@rbxts"
	}
}
```

After you've found it, you'll want to replace it with the following json.
```json
"node_modules": {
	"@rbxts": {
		"$path": "node_modules/@rbxts"
	},
	"@flamework": {
		"$path": "node_modules/@flamework"
	}
}
```

### Compiling

Now that you have Flamework installed, it's *almost* time for you to start writing some code!

#### Delete `out`
Remove the `out` directory that got generated when you initialized your project.
This is only necessary the first time you initialize the project, not after each build.

#### Installing roblox-ts
Do **not** use a global install of roblox-ts. A local install inside of your project is necessary for Flamework to work.

Before you can start writing code with Flamework, you'll have to install roblox-ts in your project.
You can do this simply by running the following command in your project's directory.

It is necessary to install `roblox-ts@next` until roblox-ts releases version 1.2.0
```bash
npm i -D roblox-ts@next
```

#### Build your project!
It's time, you're ready to write some code. Simply run the following command in your project directory.
```bash
npx rbxtsc -w
```

If you're not a fan of using a command, roblox-ts has a [vscode plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Roblox-TS.vscode-roblox-ts) that exposes a status bar button and commands that will compile your project for you!

### Updating Flamework
When it comes time to update the version of Flamework you are using, simply follow these steps.

#### Update the packages
```bash
npm i @flamework/core@latest
npm i -D rbxts-transformer-flamework@latest
```

#### Reset your build
You'll want to delete your project's `out` directory, as well as the autogenerated `flamework.build` file before attempting to recompile.


#### [Build your project!](#build-your-project)
